content/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Charles Sieg"
featured_image: background.png
subtitle: "I never lose. Either I win, or I learn. "
---

I am the founder and president of [Renkara Media Group](https://www.renkara.com). We build [AccelaStudy](https://www.accelastudy.com), an accelerated learning platform with millions of users.

I provide consulting services to a wide variety of Fortune 1000 clients. I am an expert in iOS development, [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) development, and automating the deployment of scalable and highly-available infrastructure, primarily in the AWS cloud. I am an [AWS Certified Solutions Architect](https://aws.amazon.com/certification/certified-solutions-architect-associate/).

My résumé can be found [here](/resume). Copies are available in PDF and Microsoft Word format.

I am a strong proponent of remote work, especially in the Information Technology field and am the editor of the [Remote Technologist publication on Medium](https://medium.com/remote-technologist). I've worked remotely exclusively since 2010.

I publish a newsletter of interesting articles, videos, and products called [The Weekly Edge](http://www.weeklyedge.com) on [Revue](https://www.getrevue.co). Alas, I'm so busy that it should really be called The Quarterly Edge or The Yearly Edge.

I maintain GitHub repos for the [articles](https://github.com/CharlesSieg/articles) I write and a [collection of CloudFormation and Terraform scripts](https://github.com/CharlesSieg/aws-scripts) for automated provisioning of AWS infrastructure.

---

I was an Eagle at [Carlock Elementary School](https://www.unit5.org/carlock) and a Python at [Parkside Junior High School](https://www.unit5.org/pjhs). I graduated from [University High School](http://www.uhigh.ilstu.edu). I attended [Illinois State University](https://illinoisstate.edu) for several years but graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science from [DePaul University](https://www.depaul.edu).

I'm currently considering enrolling at [Texas A&M University](http://www.tamu.edu) to pursue a [graduate degree in Computer Science](http://engineering.tamu.edu/cse/academics/degrees/cs/mcs).

---

I grew up in a neighborhood called Sunset Lake outside of the town of [Carlock, Illinois](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carlock,_Illinois), population 400.

I've lived in the Illinois cities of Bloomington, Normal, and Peoria. In 1999, I moved to Chicago. I lived in a condo at 600 South Dearborn for awhile. It is also known as the [Transportation Building](http://www.transportationbuilding.org/) and was the headquarters for [Eliot Ness and the Untouchables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eliot_Ness) during Prohibition.

I am very happily married to [Dr. Ahu Sieg](https://www.ahusieg.com). I proposed to Ahu on top of the Eiffel Tower in January 2001. We got [married on top of the Sears Tower in Chicago](https://www.flickr.com/photos/forkbender/sets/592400) on March 23rd, 2002 and went on an [epic honeymoon](https://www.flickr.com/photos/forkbender/collections/72157600249752594/).

Our son Karl was born in November, 2008. Our son Connor was born in April, 2010.

Ahu and I and the boys used to live in [Inverness, Illinois](https://www.flickr.com/photos/forkbender/collections/72157600043304959/), a suburb of Chicago. We [moved to Texas](http://www.charlessieg.com/blog/life-in-dallas-so-far) in August 2014 and now live in a small town called Westlake. We moved to Westlake so our sons could attend [Westlake Academy](http://www.westlakeacademy.org), an [International Baccalaureate](http://www.ibo.org/) charter school that frequently ranks in the top 50 schools in the United States.

In 2015, we adopted a yellow lab puppy we named Bogey.

---

I've been a [bodybuilder](/blog/my-life-as-a-bodybuilder), a [track cyclist](https://flic.kr/s/2UTe), a [triathlete](https://flic.kr/s/aHsm4vbQSM), a [rock climber](https://flic.kr/s/aHskxuRrm1), and an Olympic weightlifter. Now I do yoga and play in the mud some years at the [Tough Mudder](https://www.charlessieg.com/blog/tough-mudder-chicago-2015-obstacles-to-expect).

While I used to be an [avid snowboarder](https://www.flickr.com/photos/forkbender/247672935/in/album-72157594291351436/), I've lately become a skier and try to visit [Big Sky in Montana](/articles/big-sky) at least once a year.

I was a [Red Cross-certified lifeguard](http://www.redcross.org/take-a-class/lifeguarding) at the [Four Seasons Club in Bloomington, Illinois](http://www.4seasons-club.com) during high school and college.

Although I completed the coursework, pool sessions, and open water session to become a PADI-certified [Rescue Diver](https://www.padi.com/padi-courses/rescue-diver-course), my certification paperwork was not filed 25 years ago due to a missing CPR certificate and so I have to retake the course. Until then, I have current PADI certifications in [Advanced Open Water](https://www.padi.com/padi-courses/advanced-open-water-diver-course) and [Deep Diving](https://www.padi.com/padi-courses/deep-diver). I received excellent instruction from [Midwest Diving Specialists in Normal, Illinois](https://www.midwest-diving.com). I am a member of the [Divers Alert Network (DAN)](http://www.diversalertnetwork.org).

I am an autocross enthusiast and haved raced in a 2012 Porsche 911 S, a 2015 Porsche Boxster GTS, and am currently racing a 2013 Porsche 911 4S. I'm a member of the [Porsche Club of America - Mavericks Region](https://mav.pca.org) and I do autocross events with the [Equipe Rapide](http://www.autocross.com) sports car club in Dallas/Fort Worth.

I'm training to race at the [Circuit of the Americas in Austin, Texas](http://www.circuitoftheamericas.com) and hope to one day do some hot laps on the [Nürburgring in Germany](http://www.nuerburgring.de/en/home.html). In preparation for that day, I am working towards the necessary 1,000 laps on [the virtual Nürburgring track in Forza 6 on Xbox One](https://forzamotorsport.net/en-us/games/fm6/tracks/nurburgring).

---

You can find me on [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/charles.sieg), [Twitter](https://www.twitter.com/charlessieg), [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/charlessieg), [Flickr](https://www.flickr.com/photos/forkbender/), [Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/charlessieg/), [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/charlessieg), and [Tumblr](https://www.randomsnapshot.com).

The most popular posts on my blog are [The 10-Year Hoodie](/blog/2015/6/24/the-10-year-hoodie), [On Telecommuting](/blog/2015/6/24/on-telecommuting), [My Life as a Bodybuilder](/blog/my-life-as-a-bodybuilder), and [Renkara Offices](/renkara-offices).

The *"I never lose. Either I win, or I learn."* quote at the top of this page is from Nelson Mandela.

Commit message:

Added new section on personality.

content/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Charles Sieg"
featured_image: background.png
subtitle: "I never lose. Either I win, or I learn. "
---

I am the founder and president of [Renkara Media Group](https://www.renkara.com). We build [AccelaStudy](https://www.accelastudy.com), an accelerated learning platform with millions of users.

I provide consulting services to a wide variety of Fortune 1000 clients. I am an expert in iOS development, [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) development, and automating the deployment of scalable and highly-available infrastructure, primarily in the AWS cloud. I am an [AWS Certified Solutions Architect](https://aws.amazon.com/certification/certified-solutions-architect-associate/).

My résumé can be found [here](/resume). Copies are available in PDF and Microsoft Word format.

I am a strong proponent of remote work, especially in the Information Technology field and am the editor of the [Remote Technologist publication on Medium](https://medium.com/remote-technologist). I've worked remotely exclusively since 2010.

I publish a newsletter of interesting articles, videos, and products called [The Weekly Edge](http://www.weeklyedge.com) on [Revue](https://www.getrevue.co). Alas, I'm so busy that it should really be called The Quarterly Edge or The Yearly Edge.

I maintain GitHub repos for the [articles](https://github.com/CharlesSieg/articles) I write and a [collection of CloudFormation and Terraform scripts](https://github.com/CharlesSieg/aws-scripts) for automated provisioning of AWS infrastructure.

---

I was an Eagle at [Carlock Elementary School](https://www.unit5.org/carlock) and a Python at [Parkside Junior High School](https://www.unit5.org/pjhs). I graduated from [University High School](http://www.uhigh.ilstu.edu). I attended [Illinois State University](https://illinoisstate.edu) for several years but graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science from [DePaul University](https://www.depaul.edu).

I'm currently considering enrolling at [Texas A&M University](http://www.tamu.edu) to pursue a [graduate degree in Computer Science](http://engineering.tamu.edu/cse/academics/degrees/cs/mcs).

---

I grew up in a neighborhood called Sunset Lake outside of the town of [Carlock, Illinois](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carlock,_Illinois), population 400.

I've lived in the Illinois cities of Bloomington, Normal, and Peoria. In 1999, I moved to Chicago. I lived in a condo at 600 South Dearborn for awhile. It is also known as the [Transportation Building](http://www.transportationbuilding.org/) and was the headquarters for [Eliot Ness and the Untouchables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eliot_Ness) during Prohibition.

I am very happily married to [Dr. Ahu Sieg](https://www.ahusieg.com). I proposed to Ahu on top of the Eiffel Tower in January 2001. We got [married on top of the Sears Tower in Chicago](https://www.flickr.com/photos/forkbender/sets/592400) on March 23rd, 2002 and went on an [epic honeymoon](https://www.flickr.com/photos/forkbender/collections/72157600249752594/).

Our son Karl was born in November, 2008. Our son Connor was born in April, 2010.

Ahu and I and the boys used to live in [Inverness, Illinois](https://www.flickr.com/photos/forkbender/collections/72157600043304959/), a suburb of Chicago. We [moved to Texas](http://www.charlessieg.com/blog/life-in-dallas-so-far) in August 2014 and now live in a small town called Westlake. We moved to Westlake so our sons could attend [Westlake Academy](http://www.westlakeacademy.org), an [International Baccalaureate](http://www.ibo.org/) charter school that frequently ranks in the top 50 schools in the United States.

In 2015, we adopted a yellow lab puppy we named Bogey.

---

I've taken the [Meyers-Briggs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Myers–Briggs_Type_Indicator) personality test many times and am, invariably, an [INTJ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/INTJ), also known as the [Architect](https://www.16personalities.com/intj-personality) personality. My IQ has been formally estimated by the [Stanford-Binet] test several times to be between 150 and 165. In high school, my [Otis–Lennon School Ability Test](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Otis–Lennon_School_Ability_Test) (OLSAT) score placed me in the 99.99% percentile and was used in my admission application to [Mensa](https://www.mensa.org). I have been clinically assessed to have [low latent inhibition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Latent_inhibition#Low_latent_inhibition), which sounds like a bad thing but is actually [awesome](https://web.archive.org/web/20071129121745/http://www.nidsci.org/pdf/carson-peterson-higgins.pdf).

---

I've been a [bodybuilder](/blog/my-life-as-a-bodybuilder), a [track cyclist](https://flic.kr/s/2UTe), a [triathlete](https://flic.kr/s/aHsm4vbQSM), a [rock climber](https://flic.kr/s/aHskxuRrm1), and an Olympic weightlifter. Now I do yoga and play in the mud some years at the [Tough Mudder](https://www.charlessieg.com/blog/tough-mudder-chicago-2015-obstacles-to-expect).

While I used to be an [avid snowboarder](https://www.flickr.com/photos/forkbender/247672935/in/album-72157594291351436/), I've lately become a skier and try to visit [Big Sky in Montana](/articles/big-sky) at least once a year.

I was a [Red Cross-certified lifeguard](http://www.redcross.org/take-a-class/lifeguarding) at the [Four Seasons Club in Bloomington, Illinois](http://www.4seasons-club.com) during high school and college.

Although I completed the coursework, pool sessions, and open water session to become a PADI-certified [Rescue Diver](https://www.padi.com/padi-courses/rescue-diver-course), my certification paperwork was not filed due to a missing CPR certificate and so I have to retake the course. Until then, I have current PADI certifications in [Advanced Open Water](https://www.padi.com/padi-courses/advanced-open-water-diver-course) and [Deep Diving](https://www.padi.com/padi-courses/deep-diver). I received excellent instruction from [Midwest Diving Specialists in Normal, Illinois](https://www.midwest-diving.com). I am a member of the [Divers Alert Network (DAN)](http://www.diversalertnetwork.org).

I am an autocross enthusiast and haved raced in a 2012 Porsche 911 S, a 2015 Porsche Boxster GTS, and am currently racing a 2013 Porsche 911 4S. I'm a member of the [Porsche Club of America - Mavericks Region](https://mav.pca.org) and I do autocross events with the [Equipe Rapide](http://www.autocross.com) sports car club in Dallas/Fort Worth.

I'm training to race at the [Circuit of the Americas in Austin, Texas](http://www.circuitoftheamericas.com) and hope to one day do some hot laps on the [Nürburgring in Germany](http://www.nuerburgring.de/en/home.html). In preparation for that day, I am working towards the necessary 1,000 laps on [the virtual Nürburgring track in Forza 6 on Xbox One](https://forzamotorsport.net/en-us/games/fm6/tracks/nurburgring).

---

You can find me on [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/charles.sieg), [Twitter](https://www.twitter.com/charlessieg), [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/charlessieg), [Flickr](https://www.flickr.com/photos/forkbender/), [Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/charlessieg/), [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/charlessieg), and [Tumblr](https://www.randomsnapshot.com).

The most popular posts on my blog are [The 10-Year Hoodie](/blog/2015/6/24/the-10-year-hoodie), [On Telecommuting](/blog/2015/6/24/on-telecommuting), [My Life as a Bodybuilder](/blog/my-life-as-a-bodybuilder), and [Renkara Offices](/renkara-offices).

The *"I never lose. Either I win, or I learn."* quote at the top of this page is from Nelson Mandela.
